Section	Item Type	Date	Title	Link	Tags	Teaser
Intro	Intro	2016-10-15	Introduction	intro/introduction.html		Welcome to Practopians.com, the website for Practical Utopians! We invite you to explore our site. You'll note that it contains several different types of content.
Core	Core Writing	2015-12-16	Background	core/background.html		It has seemed to me for some time that there is a space -- perhaps even a need -- for some new institution to emerge in the world.
Core	Core Writing	2015-12-16	Mission	core/mission.html		The Practopians seek to identify and promote beliefs, principles, values and actions that will result in a brighter future for humanity.
Core	Core Writing	2015-12-16	Principles	core/principles.html		This list identifies our most fundamental beliefs about the world and our place in it.
Core	Core Writing	2015-12-16	Values	core/values.html		These are the things we value most.
Blog	Blog Post	2016-11-03	What We Need After the Election	blog/hbowie/what-we-need-after-the-election.html	education, society, population	It may be too early to know who will win on Tuesday, but it's not too early to assess the major issues roiling the electorate and offer a few thoughts about what needs to happen after the voting is over -- no matter who comes out on top.
Blog	Blog Post	2016-01-10	Developmental Levels as Evolving Social Structures	blog/hbowie/developmental-levels-as-evolving-social-structures.html	cultural evolution, integral	As human society has evolved over the centuries, we have developed different types of social structures. None of the later structures  replace earlier ones, yet each new structure has been devised in order to confer some new sort of evolutionary advantage to our species -- in other words, to help us survive and thrive more effectively.
Blog	Blog Post	2009-10-22	Developmental Levels	blog/hbowie/developmental-levels.html	integral, cultural evolution	A number of authors and systems of thought espouse one or another series of developmental levels, in fields of study as diverse as psychology, sociology, economics and organizational development.
Blog	Blog Post	2013-12-15	Human Nature	blog/hbowie/human-nature.html	evolution, humanism, cultural evolution	What does it mean to be human? This must certainly be a foundational question for all of us, when  contemplating almost any aspect of our existence. And while any brief answer to this question must admittedly be no more than a starting point for further discussion, I think it perhaps worthwhile to provide such a beginning. And so, here they are: the primary traits we share that I think make us uniquely human.
Blog	Blog Post	2012-02-21	Reasons for Belief	blog/hbowie/reasons-for-belief.html	critical thinking, religion	We often seem to assume that people say things, and come to believe them, because they are true. It seems to me, though, that people take up beliefs for a whole host of reasons, and the likely truth or falsehood of these statements is often the least of the motivating factors at work. Here then, are the multifarious reasons why people may choose to believe something.
Blog	Blog Post	2014-11-27	Religion, Storytelling and Art	blog/hbowie/religion-storytelling-and-art.html	humanism, science, written word, cultural evolution, democracy, religion	Religion can be thought of as a collection of shared cultural artifacts that provide a sense of meaning about human existence.
Blog	Blog Post	2012-08-04	Religious Freedom	blog/hbowie/religious-freedom.html	written word, critical thinking, religion, love, balance	When it comes to religion, I have to confess to being a bit of a mongrel. My mother was a Methodist. My father was a nudist. And I once called myself an immortalist. These days I choose not to align myself with any particular religious group.
Blog	Blog Post	2012-10-26	The Four Quadrants of Human Knowledge	blog/hbowie/the-four-quadrants-of-human-knowledge.html	integral	I first came across Ken Wilber's work late in the last century when a friend handed me a copy of <cite>A Brief History of Everything</cite> as a birthday present. Wilber has described four quadrants of human knowledge, each representing a different and valid perspective on the same reality.
Blog	Blog Post	2012-03-10	The Nature of God	blog/hbowie/the-nature-of-god.html	critical thinking, religion	Human records indicate that some sort of belief in a God or collection of gods is a feature of almost all human culture. No matter what the continent or age, a belief in powerful, supernatural beings that somehow influence human existence is a near-constant. At the same time, though, many skeptics have persistently questioned the existence of such a being, and beliefs about the attributes of God have exhibited wide variation, with such variations often being so deeply held that wars have been fought to advance one sort of belief over another. Rather than approach the question of God's existence directly, it seems wiser to ask ourselves how we can best explain the facts above -- the combination of a nearly universal human belief in God, combined with so far irreconcilable differences in what sort of God we believe in.
Blog	Blog Post	2011-08-15	The Systemic Era	blog/hbowie/the-systemic-era.html	cultural evolution, systemic	We tend to divide up human history into relatively neat periods, and give them names like "The Agrarian Era," "The Age of Industrialization" and "The Information Age." When I look at what's going on around me today and try to make sense of it, I am forced to draw the conclusion that we are deep into an as yet unnamed age that I would call "The Systemic Era." What I mean by this is that we are now at a point where the human condition is much more influenced by vast social and economic systems of our own collective making than by any natural forces or conditions, or any individual actions we might take, or even any individual intentions we might have.
